---
title: 'Debugging Tips'
weight: 1
---

- [Debug tips](#debug-tips)
  - [1. Wrap your whole event handler in a try/catch](#1-wrap-your-whole-event-handler-in-a-try-catch)
  - [2. Return debug information in a header](#2-return-debug-information-in-a-header)
  - [3. Setup a logging service](#3-setup-a-logging-service)
  - [4. Go to Origin on Error](#4-go-to-origin-on-error)
  - [All together](#all-together)

## Error pages generated by Workers

When a Worker running in production has an error that prevents it from returning a response, the client will receive an error page with an error code, defined as follows:

| Error code | Meaning                                                                         |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1101       | Worker threw a JavaScript exception.                                            |
| 1102       | Worker exceeded CPU time limit. See: [Resource Limits]({{< relref "limits" >}}) |
| 1015       | Your client IP is being rate limited.                                           |

<br>Other 11xx errors generally indicate a problem with the Workers runtime itself - please check our [status page](https://www.cloudflarestatus.com/) if you see one.

# Debug tips

Ideally, you write and test your Worker in the [playground](/tooling/playgroung) using `wrangler preview` or directly. The playground includes a JavaScript console where you can see debugging info like `console.log()`s and uncaught exceptions. Hopefully, you can get your script working entirely in the playground before pushing.

However, due to technical limitations, the playground doesn't always exactly produce what will happen in production. If you run into problems not seen in the playground, `console.log()` does not log anywhere and uncaught exceptions produce a generic error page (error code 1101). We therefore recommend deploying your script to a test or "staging" site before making it live on your real site. You can set up a staging environment with a free [workers.dev](/about/routes/#workers-dev) subdomain.

We are working to make this experience better, but for now, here are some tips for debugging on a live staging site:

### 1. Wrap your whole event handler in a try/catch

If you're getting error code 1101 from your Worker, that means it is throwing an exception. You can catch the exception in your code using a regular old `try`/`catch` block. (Note that this works best if your code is factored into an `async` function, otherwise you also need to know how to catch exceptions from promises.)

```javascript
async function handleRequest(request) {
  try {
    ... some logic that might error ..
    return await fetch(newUrl, request)
  } catch (err) {
    // Return the error stack as the response
    return new Response(err.stack || err)
  }
}
```

### 2. Return debug information in a header

A common quick hack to get some debug information out of your Worker is to return it as a header value in the response.

```javascript
	...
    // Copy the response and initialize body to whatever info you want to log
    response = new Response(stack, response)
    // Shove our rewritten URL into a header to find out what it was.
    response.headers.set('X-Debug-stack', stack)
    response.headers.set('X-Debug-err', err)
  }
  return response
}
```

### 3. Setup a logging service

A Worker can make HTTP requests to any site on the public internet. Many projects already have a service like [Sentry](https://sentry.io/) set up to collect error logs from browser-side JavaScript. You can use the same service to collect errors from your Worker, by making an HTTP request to the service to report the error. Refer to your service's API documentation for details on what kind of request to make.

When logging using this strategy, you must account for the fact that outstanding asynchronous tasks are canceled as soon as a Worker finishes sending its main response body to the client. In order to ensure that a logging subrequest completes, you can pass its `fetch()` promise to [`event.waitUntil()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ExtendableEvent/waitUntil). For example:

```javascript
   ...
  // Without event.waitUntil(), our fetch() to our logging service may
  // or may not complete.
  event.waitUntil(postLog(stack))
  return fetch(request)
}

function postLog(data) {
  return fetch('https://log-service.example.com/', {
    method: 'POST',
    body: data,
  })
}
```

### 4. Go to Origin on Error

Often, if your Worker isn’t doing security-critical activities, it makes sense for it to act as if it’s not
installed at all if it errors. This allows you to install logging, tracking, or other minor Workers without
fearing they may break your underlying site. This behavior can be toggled on by calling `event.passThroughOnException()`:

```javascript
addEventListener('fetch', event => {
  event.passThroughOnException()

  event.respondWith(handleRequest(event.request))
})

async function handleRequest(request) {
  // An error here will return the origin response, as if the Worker wasn’t present.
  ...
  return fetch(request)
}
```

### All together

Putting the 4 tips above together, you'd get a script like:
{{< snippet "debugging" >}}
